The new Neighbourhood Flood Vulnerability Index (NFVI) provides insight into the social vulnerability of a neighbourhood should a flood occur. The NFVI combines five  ***characteristics***  of vulnerability:

* **Susceptibility** - describing the predisposition of an individual to experience a loss of well-being when exposed to a flood. It is widely evidenced that the dominant characteristics that influence susceptibility to harm relate to the age (the old and very young) and health of the individuals exposed.
* **Ability to prepare** - reflecting the actions taken by an individual during normal conditions (i.e. in the absence of a forecast or actual flood) that are likely to reduce the harm they suffer when a future flood occurs. Although an area of continued research, an individual’s ability to prepare is influenced by their income, capacity to act, local knowledge and property tenure.
* **Ability to respond** – reflecting the underlying reasons why some individuals act more effectively in the run up to and during a flood. Although this is an area of continued research, there is broad agreement that an individual’s ability to respond is influenced by their income, capacity to access and use formal and informal information, local knowledge and physical mobility.
* **Ability to recover** – reflecting the degree to which an individual can aid their own recovery is influenced by several factors, particularly their income, capacity to use information, and physical mobility. Many flood events have highlighted the length of time it can take for individuals and communities to recover from a flood.
* **Community support** – recognising how the availability and quality of services provided by health and emergency services as well as broader care and social services influence the severity of harm caused by a flood . A formal representation of community cohesion and its influence on flood vulnerability is not available. However, the following are considered to gauge the nature of this support: housing characteristics; the collective experience of past floods; the likely availability of community services in a flood (including emergency service provides, schools, GPs, care homes); and the social networks that exist.

The map tool contains maps for each of the above characteristics. The characteristics layers are made up of indicators like Age and Health (which are mapped separately) and a series of supporting variables, each of which has its own information sheet.

Map categories are given according to scores in the index with Acute indicating areas where social vulnerability is highest in a UK context: Acute, Very High, Relatively High; Average (UK mean); Relatively Low, Very Low and Slight. See the technical guide for more information.

## References

[[1]](http://www.sayersandpartners.co.uk/uploads/6/2/0/9/6209349/sayers_2017_-_present_and_future_flood_vulnerability_risk_and_disadvantage_-_final_report_-_uploaded_05june2017_printed_-_high_quality.pdf) Sayers, P.B., Horritt, M., Penning Rowsell, E., and Fieth, J. (2017). Present and future flood vulnerability, risk and disadvantage: A UK scale assessment. A report for the Joseph Rowntree Foundation published by Sayers and Partners LLP.
