
**Reference:** S4

**Theme:** Vulnerability

**Hazard reference:** Flood & Heat

**Dimension:** Sensitivity

**Domain:** Health

**Indicator:** Disability / people in ill-health (% people whose day-to-day activities are limited)

**Assumption:** Higher proportions of people in poor health in an area indicate a higher vulnerability. The long-term sick are more vulnerable to the impacts of a flood as the experience can make their pre-existing condition worse either as a one-off 'hit', or due to accelerating its adverse trajectory.

**Confidence level:** High

## Guidance for Use

Adaptation needs to address the specific challenges associated with places with a high density of people in ill-health (as measured by this indicator) and also places where there may be fewer people in ill-health but where they may be socially or physically isolated, perhaps within areas which otherwise have low social vulnerability. Responses may need to be targeted differently to take account of this, working with existing health and social care service providers and also voluntary and community sector organisations who may support these groups. More information about this indicator is available in the ill-health message in the main portal, including actions which can be taken to respond. Additional, more refined, health data may be available at the local level, as well as from tools such as SHAPE and the Public Health Outcomes Framework tools.

## Data Sources

*Please note that mapped data are at LSOA level though data in the tool are MSOA level. A full explanation of the data at LSOA level is available for the flood layers for the Neighbourhood Flood Vulnerability Index (NFVI).*

Census 2011, KS301. Sum of two indicators: % of people whose day-to-day activities are limited a lot, plus % of people whose day-to-day activities are limited a little.

Office for National Statistics, 2011 Census: Aggregate data (England and Wales) [computer file]. UK Data Service Census Support. Downloaded from: http://infuse.mimas.ac.uk. Licensed under the Open Government Licence: http://www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence/version/2.

Office for National Statistics, 2011 Census: Digitised Boundary Data (England and Wales) [computer file]. UK Data Service Census Support. Downloaded from: http://edina.ac.uk/census.
