# % households with at least one person with long term limiting illness

**Theme:** Vulnerability

**Hazard reference:** Flood (Revised Data, 2017)

**Characteristic:** Susceptibility

**Indicator:** Health

**Supporting Variable:** % households with at least one person with long term limiting illness

**Assumption:** Higher proportions of people in poor health in an area indicate a higher vulnerability. The long-term sick are more vulnerable to the impacts of a flood as the experience can make their pre-existing condition worse either as a one-off 'hit', or due to accelerating its adverse trajectory.

## Evidence

More information is available at: http://www.climatejust.org.uk/messages/people-poor-health

- Flooding may restrict an individual's access to medicine, e.g. due to loss or damage or it being left behind in the context of an emergency (Age UK, 2016).
- Flooding may prevent the use of complex home-based health care systems, for example home dialysis, due to direct flood damage or to loss of power (Klinger et al., 2014).
- Being flooded is stressful and mental health impacts can be serious. Recorded psychological stresses caused by flooding in the UK and OECD include: post-traumatic stress disorder, depression, anxiety and domestic violence (Pendlebury and Bates, 2015). A delayed increase in suicide rates has been observed following natural disasters, though evidence of this after flood events is very limited (Kolves et al., 2013). Many psychological effects last much longer (2+ years) than adverse physical health effects (Tapsell et al., 2002). While post-event stress is likely to affect everyone, those with existing mental health conditions are likely to suffer the most (Sims et al., 2008; Waite et al., 2017).
- Telephone connectivity and transport routes are often disrupted during flood events, making it difficult for carers to contact and reach patients receiving care at home (Age UK, 2016). This was a problem in Lancashire during the flooding in 2015 caused by Storm Desmond.

## Data Sources

Office for National Statistics, 2011 Census: Aggregate data (England and Wales) [computer file]. UK Data Service Census Support. Downloaded from: http://infuse.mimas.ac.uk. Licensed under the Open Government Licence: http://www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence/version/2.

Office for National Statistics, 2011 Census: Digitised Boundary Data (England and Wales) [computer file England_lsoa_2011_clipped.shp and Wales_lsoa_2011_clipped.shp]. UK Data Service Census Support. Downloaded from: borders.ukdataservice.ac.uk (10-06-14).

Scotland boundaries (Data Zones) downloaded from: gov.scot/Topics/Statistics/sns/BoundMap (5-11-14). Further data for Scotland is available from: http://statistics.gov.scot/

Based upon Sayers, P.B., Horritt, M., Penning Rowsell, E., and Fieth, J. (2017). Present and future flood vulnerability, risk and disadvantage: A UK scale assessment. Joseph Rowntree Foundation / Sayers and Partners LLP.

## References

[1] Age UK (2016). Older people and power loss, floods and storms. Age UK.

[2] Klinger, C., Landeg, O. and Murray, V. (2014). Power Outages, Extreme Events and Health: a Systematic Review of the Literature from 2011-2012. PLOS Currents Disasters.

[3] Kolves, K., Kolves, K.E. and De Leo, D. (2013). Natural disasters and suicide behaviours: A systemic literature review. Journal of Affective Disorders, 146, 1–14.

[4] Pendlebury, M. and Bates, G. (2015). Reducing adverse health impacts from flooding and flood risk: A review of the literature and development of questions for further research. National Flood Forum.

[5] Tapsell, S.M., Penning-Rowsell, E.C., Tunstall, S.M. and Wilson, T.L. (2002). Vulnerability to flooding: health and social dimensions. Philosophical Transactions of The Royal Society, Vol 360, No. 1796, pp. 1511–1525. ISSN: 1364503X.

[6] Sims, R., Medd, W., Mort, M., Watson, N., Walker, G. and Twigger-Ross, C. (2008). Perspectives on resilience from households in Hull. Lancaster University.

[7] Waite, T.D. et al. (2017). The English national cohort study of flooding and health: cross-sectional analysis of mental health outcomes at year one. DOI: 10.1186/s12889-016-4000-2.
