# Long-term unemployed (% who are LTU or who have never worked)

**Reference:** AT0_3, AT1_3, AT2_3

**Theme:** Vulnerability

**Hazard reference:** Flood & Heat

**Dimension:** Ability to Prepare, Respond and Recover

**Domain:** Income

**Indicator:** Long-term unemployed (% who are LTU or who have never worked)

**Assumption:** Higher proportions of people in an area who are long-term unemployed or who have never worked indicate a higher vulnerability because of their likelihood to be on lower incomes relative to other people.

**Confidence level:** High

## Guidance for Use

Unemployment is a recognised indicator of financial deprivation (see Unemployment info). The challenges facing the unemployed are heightened for the long-term unemployed, and this indicator is therefore used as a proxy for low incomes. Average levels of wealth for households headed by people who are long-term unemployed or who have never worked are just 3% of those of people working in employment classified as 'large employer or higher managerial'.

Adaptation should address the needs of people who have lower incomes, as a lack of financial resources may restrict people's access to some ways of preparing for, responding to and recovering from hazard events. A range of actions appropriate to tackling these difficulties is given in the dedicated pages on this topic.

Although unemployment is taken as an indicator of a tendency towards high vulnerability, it may reduce vulnerability in some cases — for example, unemployed people may benefit from being able to respond quickly to events like floods and heat-waves and potentially getting assistance through social housing. Despite this, people in this group are significantly more likely to have negative impacts on their health and wellbeing in the aftermath of flooding. Additional, more refined, data may be available at the local level.

## Data Sources

*Please note that mapped data are at LSOA level though data in the tool are MSOA level. A full explanation of the data at LSOA level is available for the flood layers for the Neighbourhood Flood Vulnerability Index (NFVI).*

Census 2011, KS611. % people who never worked plus % people in long-term unemployment.

Office for National Statistics, 2011 Census: Aggregate data (England and Wales) [computer file]. UK Data Service Census Support. Downloaded from: http://infuse.mimas.ac.uk. Licensed under the Open Government Licence: http://www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence/version/2.

Office for National Statistics, 2011 Census: Digitised Boundary Data (England and Wales) [computer file]. UK Data Service Census Support. Downloaded from: http://edina.ac.uk/census.

## References

[1] Office for National Statistics Wealth and Assets Survey 2006–8, cited in the Marmot Review (2010, p77). https://www.bristol.ac.uk/media-library/sites/geography/migrated/documents/pfrc0914.pdf

[2] Paranjothy, S. et al. (2011). Psychosocial impact of the summer 2007 floods in England. BMC Public Health, 11:145. https://bmcpublichealth.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/1471-2458-11-145
