# Households with dependent children and no adults in employment (%)

**Reference:** AT0_4, AT1_4, AT2_4

**Theme:** Vulnerability

**Hazard reference:** Flood & Heat

**Dimension:** Ability to Prepare, Respond and Recover

**Domain:** Income

**Indicator:** Households with dependent children and no adults in employment (%)

**Assumption:** Higher proportions of unemployed people with dependent children in an area indicate a higher vulnerability because of their likelihood to be on lower incomes relative to other people.

**Confidence level:** High

## Guidance for Use

Unemployment is a recognised indicator of financial deprivation and is commonly used as a measure of vulnerability. This indicator is therefore used as a proxy for low incomes. Adaptation should address the needs of people who have lower incomes, as a lack of financial resources may restrict people's access to some ways of preparing for, responding to and recovering from hazard events.

When people who are unemployed have additional caring responsibilities, it may place further stresses upon them. Despite having additional financial support compared with unemployed people without dependents, it may be insufficient to fully compensate for the additional financial burdens required to effectively prepare for, respond to and recover from events like floods and heat-waves. Additional, more refined, data may be available at the local level.

## Data Sources

Census 2011, KS106. % households with no adults in employment and dependent children.

Office for National Statistics, 2011 Census: Aggregate data (England and Wales) [computer file]. UK Data Service Census Support. Downloaded from: http://infuse.mimas.ac.uk. Licensed under the Open Government Licence: http://www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence/version/2.

Office for National Statistics, 2011 Census: Digitised Boundary Data (England and Wales) [computer file]. UK Data Service Census Support. Downloaded from: http://edina.ac.uk/census.
