# Local Knowledge

**Reference:** K1

**Theme:** Vulnerability

**Hazard reference:** Flood (Revised Data, 2017)

**Characteristic:** Inability to Prepare and Respond

**Indicator:** Local Knowledge

**Supporting Variable:** New migrants from outside the local area

**Assumption:** Higher proportions of people who are new to an area indicate a higher vulnerability. They have a lower ability to adapt (to prepare for events and respond to them) because they may be less aware that their new community has a flood risk issue and have less knowledge about what to do if affected.

## Evidence

More information is available at: http://www.climatejust.org.uk/messages/people-who-have-lived-area-short-time

- Communities where population turnover is high may be less aware of the likelihood of being affected by events like floods, how to respond and where to seek support (Penning-Rowsell et al., 1986).
- People who have recently moved into an area may lack awareness of local flood risk provided through family and community clues. Blaikie et al. (1994) states that lack of knowledge and information is one of the most important underlying reasons for vulnerability (Werritty et al., 2007).
- People living in rural areas tend to have more knowledge of local flood risk compared to urban areas, not least because they have longer residence times (Penning-Rowsell et al., 1986).

## Data Sources

**New migrants from outside the local area**
Source: Census, ONS (2011). Table UKMIG001. People who lived outside the local area or outside the associated area (local authority) one year ago, as a % of total residents.

**Year:** 2011

**Geographic subdivisions:** Eng: LSOA; Wales: LSOA; Scot: DZ; NI: SOA.

Office for National Statistics, 2011 Census: Aggregate data (England and Wales) [computer file]. UK Data Service Census Support. Downloaded from: http://infuse.mimas.ac.uk. Licensed under the Open Government Licence: http://www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence/version/2.

Office for National Statistics, 2011 Census: Digitised Boundary Data (England and Wales) [computer file England_lsoa_2011_clipped.shp and Wales_lsoa_2011_clipped.shp]. UK Data Service Census Support. Downloaded from: borders.ukdataservice.ac.uk (10-06-14).

Scotland boundaries (Data Zones) downloaded from: gov.scot/Topics/Statistics/sns/BoundMap (5-11-14). Further data for Scotland is available from: http://statistics.gov.scot/

Based upon Sayers, P.B., Horritt, M., Penning Rowsell, E., and Fieth, J. (2017). Present and future flood vulnerability, risk and disadvantage: A UK scale assessment. Joseph Rowntree Foundation / Sayers and Partners LLP.

## References

[1] Blaikie, P., Cannon, T., Davis, I. and Wisner, B. (1994). At Risk: Natural Hazards, People's Vulnerability, and Disasters. Routledge: London.

[2] Penning-Rowsell, E.C., Parker, D.J. and Harding, D.M. (1986). Floods and Drainage. London: Allen and Unwin.

[3] Werritty, A., Houston, D., Ball, T., Tavendale, T. and Black, A. (2007). Exploring the social impacts of flood risk and flooding in Scotland. Report for the Scottish Executive.
