# Crime

**Reference:** C1

**Theme:** Vulnerability

**Hazard reference:** Flood (Revised Data, 2017)

**Characteristic:** Ability to Respond

**Indicator:** Crime

**Supporting Variable:** Crime

**Assumption:** Higher levels of crime in an area indicate a higher vulnerability. People living in areas with higher crime have a lower ability to respond to flood events and/or may be more severely affected.

## Evidence

- People living in areas with higher crime rates may be more wary of taking preventative measures against flooding and have extra security mechanisms on their houses such as multiple locks on doors and windows; this can cause delays in evacuation and rescue attempts.
- People living in areas with higher crime rates may be more wary of taking preventative measures against flooding in case they are 'scams', and so may be more socially vulnerable than communities with lower crime rates.
- Where crime rates are high, residents may hesitate to evacuate properties during floods for fear of looting. For example, during the 2014 floods on the Somerset Levels, it was reported that empty houses were being targeted by thieves taking domestic heating oil (The Independent, 2014).

## Data Sources

**High levels of crime**
Source: Department of Communities and Local Government; Statistics for Wales; Scottish Government; NI Statistics and Research Agency. England: Indices of Deprivation 2015, Crime Domain, Crime Score (all crime). Scotland: SIMD Crime Score, 2012. Wales: SIMD Crime Score, 2014. Northern Ireland: NIIMD Crime Score, 2010.

**Geographic subdivisions:** Eng: LSOA; Wales: LSOA; Scot: DZ; NI: SOA.

Office for National Statistics, 2011 Census: Aggregate data (England and Wales) [computer file]. UK Data Service Census Support. Downloaded from: http://infuse.mimas.ac.uk. Licensed under the Open Government Licence: http://www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence/version/2.

Office for National Statistics, 2011 Census: Digitised Boundary Data (England and Wales) [computer file England_lsoa_2011_clipped.shp and Wales_lsoa_2011_clipped.shp]. UK Data Service Census Support. Downloaded from: borders.ukdataservice.ac.uk (10-06-14).

Scotland boundaries (Data Zones) downloaded from: gov.scot/Topics/Statistics/sns/BoundMap (5-11-14). Further data for Scotland is available from: http://statistics.gov.scot/

Based upon Sayers, P.B., Horritt, M., Penning Rowsell, E., and Fieth, J. (2017). Present and future flood vulnerability, risk and disadvantage: A UK scale assessment. Joseph Rowntree Foundation / Sayers and Partners LLP.

## References

[1] The Independent (2014). Somerset floods: Thieves target victims. Accessed: 24/10/2016. https://www.independent.co.uk/news/uk/crime/somerset-levels-thieves-cash-in-on-floods-misery-9103851.html
