# Index of Multiple Deprivation crime score

**Reference:** AT1_33

**Theme:** Vulnerability

**Hazard reference:** Flood and Heat

**Dimension:** Ability to Respond

**Domain:** Crime

**Indicator:** Index of Multiple Deprivation crime score

**Assumption:** People living in areas with higher rates of crime may be more reluctant to take preventative measures in reaction to warnings of extreme events and therefore have higher social vulnerability compared with communities with lower crime rates.

**Confidence level:** Medium

## Guidance for Use

Adaptation needs to address the specific challenges associated with places where people may be reluctant to take preventative measures during, or immediately prior to, events like floods and heat-waves. For example, if there is a fear of crime in an area people may feel less able to leave windows open at night during heat-wave events. Fear of crime was found to be one of the major factors explaining why some people were more negatively affected than others in the 1995 heat-wave in Chicago (Klinenberg, 2002). People may also be less inclined to deploy measures like flood gates since this can indicate that the householder is away.

This is a proxy indicator with a medium confidence rating. It is uncertain because the factor of interest is fear of crime, which may not necessarily correspond to the reality of crime rates in an area. It is also recognised that there are different types of crime, not all of which will have the same impact on individual and community perceptions. Nevertheless, measures which address reasons for people not feeling able to respond to warnings may be an important consideration when working towards more resilient communities. Additional and finer scale indicators are available through the Index of Multiple Deprivation and crime statistics datasets. Further sources of information may also be available at a local level.

## Data Sources

Office of National Statistics, The English Indices of Deprivation 2010: Crime Domain. Recalculated from 2001 LSOA spatial units (2010 data) by area-weighted averages for 2011 MSOAs. Index created by the Social Disadvantage Research Centre, Department of Social Policy and Social Work, University of Oxford.

Office for National Statistics, 2011 Census: Digitised Boundary Data (England and Wales) [computer file]. UK Data Service Census Support. Downloaded from: [http://edina.ac.uk/census](http://edina.ac.uk/census).

## References

[1] Klinenberg, E. (2002). Heatwave: A Social Autopsy of Disaster in Chicago. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press. [https://press.uchicago.edu/ucp/books/book/chicago/H/bo20809880.html](https://press.uchicago.edu/ucp/books/book/chicago/H/bo20809880.html)
