# Single pensioner households (%)

**Reference:** AT1_23, AT2_18

**Theme:** Vulnerability

**Hazard reference:** Flood and Heat

**Dimension:** Ability to Respond and Ability to Recover

**Domain:** Social networks

**Indicator:** Single pensioner households (%)

**Assumption:** Areas with higher proportions of single pensioner householders are more likely to have socially isolated people and therefore higher social vulnerability compared to areas with lower proportions of single pensioner households.

**Confidence level:** Medium

## Guidance for Use

Adaptation needs to address the specific challenges associated with places with a higher proportion of single pensioner households, but more specifically places where communities are likely to have socially isolated individuals with poor social networks. However, it is also important to develop actions to target places where there may be fewer single pensioner households but where individuals might still be socially or physically isolated, perhaps within areas which otherwise have low social vulnerability.

Responses in places with high concentrations of single pensioner households may differ from those in places with low concentrations — for example, if there are more intermediary organisations or networks such as community organisations who can work with older people with particular needs. Additional, more refined, data on older people, their relative sensitivities and other characteristics which tend to make them more or less vulnerable may be available at the local level.

## Data Sources

Census 2011, QS113. % single pensioner households.

Office for National Statistics, 2011 Census: Aggregate data (England and Wales) [computer file]. UK Data Service Census Support. Downloaded from: http://infuse.mimas.ac.uk. Licensed under the Open Government Licence: http://www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence/version/2.

Office for National Statistics, 2011 Census: Digitised Boundary Data (England and Wales) [computer file]. UK Data Service Census Support. Downloaded from: http://edina.ac.uk/census.
