# % lone parent households with dependent children

**Reference:** AT1_26, AT2_21

**Theme:** Vulnerability

**Hazard reference:** Flood & Heat

**Dimension:** Adaptive capacity: Ability to respond and ability to recover

**Domain:** Social networks

**Indicator:** % lone parent households with dependent children

**Assumption:** A higher proportion of lone parents with dependent children is assumed to be a proxy indicator of higher vulnerability as a result of potential isolation.

**Confidence level:** Low — this is a proxy measure and its suitability is open to debate.

## Guidance for Use

Adaptation needs to address the specific challenges associated with places with a higher proportion of lone parents with dependent children, but more specifically places where communities are likely to include socially isolated people who have poor social networks. The use of this indicator as a proxy for social networks, and the assumption that higher proportions of lone parents with dependent children may result in more potential for isolation, is open to debate. There is conflicting evidence which points to both the potential for stronger networks and also the chance for higher rates of isolation within this group.

Although this indicator is used as a proxy measure of networks, considering the distributions of lone parents with dependent children may be helpful as an indicator of other vulnerability factors, since this also points to greater responsibilities which may reduce their capacity for responding to extreme events relative to other groups. Other measures of social networks for people with young children may be available from internal data sources or from local organisations working with vulnerable people.

## Data Sources

Census 2011. % lone parent households with dependent children.

Office for National Statistics, 2011 Census: Aggregate data (England and Wales) [computer file]. UK Data Service Census Support. Downloaded from: http://infuse.mimas.ac.uk. Licensed under the Open Government Licence: http://www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence/version/2.

Office for National Statistics, 2011 Census: Digitised Boundary Data (England and Wales) [computer file]. UK Data Service Census Support. Downloaded from: http://edina.ac.uk/census.
