Heat socio-spatial vulnerability refers to mapped social vulnerability with respect to heat-related hazard. The map shows how the personal, social and environmental factors which help to explain uneven impacts on people and communities come together in particular neighbourhoods. It shows where negative social impacts are more likely. This information can then be combined with the likelihood of events occurring to understand how this social vulnerability and potential for negative impacts translates into disadvantage. The heat socio-spatial vulnerability map shows the result of an equally-weighted combination of neighbourhood-level scores for indicators within each of the five dimensions of socio-spatial vulnerability for each neighbourhood:

* [Sensitivity](sheet16.html)
* [Enhanced Exposure](sheet18.html)
* [(In)ability to Prepare](sheet20.html)
* [(In)ability to Respond](sheet22.html)
* [(In)ability to Recover](sheet24.html)

Neighbourhood mapping uses Middle Super Output Areas (MSOAs) from the UK Census, 2011. More information is available in the ClimateJust user guide and list of limitations . This area-based representation provides only a broad, national-scale indication of local patterns and users are strongly encouraged to build on this starting point with finer scale geographical data and other local data holdings.

Acknowledgements: See indicator information for relevant data acknowledgements for the inputs to this dataset. Mapping is based on Office for National Statistics, 2011 Census: Digitised Boundary Data (England and Wales) [computer file]. UK Data Service Census Support. Downloaded from: <http://census.edina.ac.uk/>