# Social Flood Risk (SFRI)

The level of social flood risk (SFRI) at a neighbourhood scale is a measure of geographic flood disadvantage (i.e. where social vulnerability and exposure to flooding coincide).

The SFRI is a relative index and has no defined units. The greater the value for a neighbourhood, the higher the level of social flood risk. High levels of risk occur where high numbers of people live in the floodplain in a neighbourhood with high social vulnerability. High negative values are a result of high numbers of people living in the floodplain in a neighbourhood with low social vulnerability. Neighbourhoods where no-one lives in the floodplain have a value of zero. Social flood risk maps are provided for two flood themes:

* **pluvial (surface water) flooding**
* **coastal and fluvial flooding combined**

Social flood risk maps cover three different scenarios:

* **Present day**
* **2050s 2 degrees** rise in Global Mean Temperature (GMT) (from the 1961-90 baseline as used in the latest UK climate change projections (UKCP09))
* **2050s 4 degrees** rise in GMT assuming a continuation in current levels of adaptation and high population growth.

Social flood risk is given as two different measures for each neighbourhood:

* **Neighbourhood scale - a 'group' measure** which incorporates the chance of flooding occurring in the floodplain (accounting for defences), the number of people living within the floodplain and the overall social vulnerability of the neighbourhood. High positive scores identify neighbourhoods where large numbers of the most vulnerable people are exposed to flooding.
* **Individual scale - an 'average' measure** which incorporates the chance of flooding occurring in the floodplain (accounting for defences) and the overall social vulnerability of the neighbourhood. The measure generates a 'per person' risk estimate. It helps to identify neighbourhoods where the vulnerability of those exposed is high (even when in reality only a few people may be exposed). It is calculated by dividing the SFRI group measure by the floodplain population.

References

[[1]](http://www.sayersandpartners.co.uk/uploads/6/2/0/9/6209349/sayers_2017_-_present_and_future_flood_vulnerability_risk_and_disadvantage_-_final_report_-_uploaded_05june2017_printed_-_high_quality.pdf) Sayers, P.B., Horritt, M., Penning Rowsell, E., and Fieth, J. (2017). Present and future flood vulnerability, risk and disadvantage: A UK scale assessment. A report for the Joseph Rowntree Foundation published by Sayers and Partners LLP.
