The maps of heat hazard-exposure broadly show where there is likely to be a greater chance of coming into contact with heat-related events across the UK. There are three measures of heat-related hazard, each of which are presented in categories from slight to acute (Table 1), showing where high temperatures are more likely to occur), and as an absolute temperature in ℃, to give six sets of maps. They are:

* **Summer average temperature**:a map of daily average summer temperature (averaged across June, July and August), giving the expected average temperature for a typical summer’s day.
* **Summer average maximum temperature**: : a map of average daily maximum summer temperature (averaged across June, July and August), giving the expected temperature at the hottest part of the day for a typical summer’s day.
* **Summer extreme maximum temperature**: a map of extreme daily maximum summer temperature (across June, July and August), giving the expected temperature at the hottest part of the day during an extreme heatwave. These are split by return period to give a representation of how likely an event is to occur. For example, if region of the map shows 40℃ with a return period of 50 years, you would expect temperatures to exceed 40℃ only once every 50 years, or have a 1 in 50 chance of exceeding 40℃ in any given year.

**Table 1.** Correspondence between Z-Scores calculated over entire dataset (all years and scenarios for each measure) and labels for maps of heat exposure.

| Z-Score | Label |
| --- | --- |
| ≥ 2.5 | Acute |
| 1.5 – 2.5 | Extremely high |
| 0.5 – 1.5 | Relatively high |
| -0.5 – 0.5 | Average |
| -1.5 – -0.5 | Relatively low |
| -2.5 – -1.5 | Extremely low |
| ≤ -2.5 | Slight |

The maps are shown on 25km grid cells, conforming to climate scenario outputs from the United Kingdom Climate Projections 2018 (UKCP18) project. Maps are provided for three years: 2020 (roughly present day), 2050 and 2080. The temperatures at each year are the average over the 20 year time period about the central year (e.g. 2050 is the average between 2040–2060).

In line with UKCP18 guidance, maps are provided for four climate change scenarios and three probability levels.The scenarios, known as "Representative Concentration Pathways" (RCP), were developed for the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) fifth assessment report. The number after RCP is the net radiative forcing in 2100 from all greenhouse gases in Wm-2 (e.g. for RCP8.5 the radiative forcing from all greenhouse gases in 2100 is 8.5 Wm-2), where a higher radiative forcing leads to a greater increase in global temperatures. For each RCP, plausible future socioeconomic and corresponding greenhouse gas emission scenarios were developed as follows:

* **Low Emissions** – RCP2.6: a future in which the world achieves rapid and sustained reduction of emissions of greenhouse gases, giving a sizeable chance of keeping the global average increase in temperatures compared to preindustrial times below 2℃.
* **Moderate emissions** – RCP4.5: an intermediate scenario in which emissions of greenhouse gases stop increasing past around the 2030s, after which the world slowly transitions to a low carbon future.
* **High emissions** – RCP6.0: a future in which emissions of greenhouse gases continue to rise, peaking around 2060 and eventually stabilising by 2100.
* **Very high emissions** – RCP8.5: a future in which the world fails to commit to a low-carbon future, use of fossil fuels expands, and emissions rise rapidly up to and beyond 2100.

No one scenario is described as more likely than any of the others, the spread reflects the uncertainty in future socioeconomic development and emissions of greenhouse gases. Each of the different scenarios were used to drive simulations of the Earths climate using state-of-the-art climate models for the IPCC fifth assessment report. The UKCP18 dataset combines the results of all of these models into one dataset with a range of percentiles based on the spread of model data. Here, we present three percentiles:

* **10th percentile**: low estimate.
* **50th percentile**: central estimate or median.
* **90th percentile**: high estimate.

Collectively, the range of percentiles represents the uncertainty in response of the climate for a given increase in greenhouse gases. The maps for the central (50th percentile) estimate of the moderate emissions scenario for mean summer maximum temperature in the 2050s is a recommended starting point. A more cautious approach may mean looking at the 90th percentile of one of the higher emission scenarios.

More information is available in the ClimateJust user guide, the main report, and the UKCP18 documentation on caveats and limitations.

Further information on the UKCP18 data can be found in following reports:

* [UKCP18 Guidance: Data Availability, Access and Formats](https://www.metoffice.gov.uk/binaries/content/assets/metofficegovuk/pdf/research/ukcp/ukcp18-guidance-data-availability-access-and-formats.pdf).
* [UKCP18 Guidance: Caveats and Limitations](https://www.metoffice.gov.uk/binaries/content/assets/metofficegovuk/pdf/research/ukcp/ukcp18-guidance---caveats-and-limitations.pdf).
* [UKCP18 Science Overview Report](https://www.metoffice.gov.uk/pub/data/weather/uk/ukcp18/science-reports/UKCP18-Overview-report.pdf).

References

[[1]](https://catalogue.ceda.ac.uk/uuid/9f8dfaf790644dbcb2c3f69f409a70d6) Met Office Hadley Centre (2018): UKCP18 Probabilistic Projections on a 25km grid over the UK for 1961-2100. Centre for Environmental Data Analysis, last updated: 2022-08-05. (Use of these data is covered by the [Open Government License version 3](https://www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence/version/3/)).

[[2]](https://www.ipcc.ch/site/assets/uploads/2017/09/WG1AR5_Frontmatter_FINAL.pdf) IPCC, 2013: Climate Change 2013: The Physical Science Basis. Contribution of Working Group I to the Fifth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change [Stocker, T.F., D. Qin, G.-K. Plattner, M. Tignor, S.K. Allen, J. Boschung, A. Nauels, Y. Xia, V. Bex and P.M. Midgley (eds.)]. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, United Kingdom and New York, NY, USA, 1535 pp.
