Heat socio-spatial vulnerability refers to mapped social vulnerability with respect to heat-related hazard. The map shows how the personal, social and environmental factors which help to explain uneven impacts on people and communities come together in particular neighbourhoods. It shows where negative social impacts are more likely. This information can then be combined with the likelihood of events occurring to understand how this social vulnerability and potential for negative impacts translates into disadvantage. The heat socio-spatial vulnerability map shows the result of an equally-weighted combination of neighbourhood-level scores for indicators within each of the five dimensions of socio-spatial vulnerability for each neighbourhood:

* **Sensitivity** - Sensitivity refers to personal biophysical characteristics which affect the likelihood that a heat wave or flood event will have negative health and welfare impacts. For example, older people tend to be more susceptible to the effects of high temperatures. The map shows the result of an equally-weighted combination of neighbourhood-level scores for indicators within the two domains associated with Sensitivity:

  + Age
  + Health
* **Enhanced Exposure** - Enhanced exposure refers to aspects of the physical environment, such as the availability of green space or housing characteristics, which tend to accentuate or offset the severity of heat wave or flood events. The map shows the result of an equally-weighted combination of neighbourhood-level scores for indicators within the domains associated with enhanced exposure with respect to heat:

  + Physical environment
  + Physical geography
  + Building characteristics
* **(In)ability to Prepare** - A person’s or community’s ability to prepare for climate and extreme weather events is governed primarily by social factors. With respect to heat this includes factors such as income and tenure. The map shows the result of an equally-weighted combination of neighbourhood-level scores for indicators within the domains associated with respect to heat:

  + Income
  + Tenure
  + Information use – language
* **(In)ability to Respond** - A person’s or community’s ability to respond to climate and extreme weather events is governed primarily by social factors. With respect to heat this includes factors such as social networks and mobility. The map shows the result of an equally-weighted combination of neighbourhood-level scores for indicators within the domains associated with respect to heat:

  + Income
  + Information use – language
  + Social networks
  + Mobility
  + Crime
  + General accessibility
  + General infrastructure
* **(In)ability to Recover** - A person’s or community’s ability to recover from climate and extreme weather events is governed primarily by social factors. With respect to heat this includes factors such as social networks, mobility and the availability of services. The map shows the result of an equally-weighted combination of neighbourhood-level scores for indicators within the domains associated with respect to heat:

  + Information use – language
  + Social networks
  + Mobility
  + Service access

Neighbourhood mapping uses Middle Super Output Areas (MSOAs) from the UK Census, 2011. More information is available in the ClimateJust user guide and list of limitations . This area-based representation provides only a broad, national-scale indication of local patterns and users are strongly encouraged to build on this starting point with finer scale geographical data and other local data holdings.

Acknowledgements: See indicator information for relevant data acknowledgements for the inputs to this dataset. Mapping is based on Office for National Statistics, 2011 Census: Digitised Boundary Data (England and Wales) [computer file]. UK Data Service Census Support. Downloaded from: <http://census.edina.ac.uk/>