
## Flood zones

Flood zones are divided areas of the natural floodplain, and are shown on our flood map for planning.

They divide the floodplain into 3 areas or zones that represent different levels of flood risk, not taking into account the presence of flood defences.

The zones are shown as shaded areas on a map and are used by the local planning authorities when considering planning applications.

## What the flood zones mean

**Zone 1**- shows areas with the lowest probability of flooding from rivers and the sea, where the chance of flooding in any one year is less than 0.1% (i.e. a 1000 to 1 chance).

**Zone 2**- shows the area between zone 1 and zone 3. This represents an area with the chance of flooding in any one year between 0.1% and 1% fluvial or 0.5% tidal (i.e. between a 1000 to 1 and a 100 to 1 fluvial or 200 to 1 tidal chance). The outer edge of this zone is referred to as the 'Extreme Flood Outline' (EFO).

**Zone 3**- shows areas with the highest probability of flooding. The chance of flooding in any one year is greater than or equal to 1% (i.e. a 100 to 1 chance) for river flooding and greater or equal to 0.5% (i.e. a 200 to 1 chance) for coastal and tidal flooding.

## Risk of flooding from rivers and sea

River flooding happens when a river cannot cope with the amount of water draining into it from the surrounding land. Sea flooding happens when there are high tides and stormy conditions.

Further details are available on the [Welsh Geo-Portal](http://lle.gov.wales/catalogue?lang=en&Text=&C=7&Page=&INSPIRE=False%2F%2F).
