**Enhanced Exposure** - Enhanced exposure refers to aspects of the physical environment, such as the availability of green space or housing characteristics, which tend to accentuate or offset the severity of extreme heat events. The map shows the result of an equally-weighted combination of neighbourhood-level scores for indicators within the domains associated with enhanced exposure with respect to heat:

- Physical environment
- Housing characteristics
  

The calculated Enhanced Exposure Index Z-Score is plotted using the following classification scheme:

| Z-score | Label | Colour |
| --- | --- | --- |
| ≥ 2.5 | Acute |  |
| 1.5 to 2.5 | Extremely high |  |
| 0.5 to 1.5 | Relatively high |  |
| 0.5 to -0.5 | Average |  |
| -0.5 to -1.5 | Relatively low |  |
| -1.5 to -2.5 | Extremely low |  |
| ≤ - 2.5 | Slight |  |

  

Enhanced Exposure Index domains, indicators, data sources, processing details and the respective weightings of each indicator to derive the domains are summarised in the table below:

| Domain | Indicator Name | Source and Provider | Indicator processing details | Indicator Weight |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Physical Environment | Built up area (% not greenspace) | ONS Greenspace Column | Indicator calculated by subtracting the area of greenspace from 100%. Recalculated from LSOA spatial units | 0.330 |
| Lack of domestic gardens (% dwellings without gardens) | ONS Greenspace Column | ONS Greenspace Column AH Lack of private greenspace (% dwellings without gardens) | 0.330 |
| Median combined size of parks and public gardens and playing fields within 1,000 m radius (m2) | ONS Greenspace Column | ONS Greenspace Column R Median combined size of parks and public gardens and playing fields within 1,000 m radius (m2) | 0.330 |
| Housing Characteristics | People in overcrowded households (%) | Welsh Index of Multiple Deprivation, Welsh Government. | Welsh Index of Multiple Deprivation, Welsh Government. People in overcrowded households (%) | 0.500 |
| Number of flats without gardens (Proxy for high-rise flats) | ONS Greenspace | Calculated from ONS Greenspace - Derived indicator. Office for National Statistics (ons.gov.uk) | 0.500 |

  

**Disclaimers:**The supply of these data in no way implies or leads to an expectation of support in the use of these data. No updates or modifications will necessarily be made available. The University of Manchester does not make any warranty as to the accuracy of the these data and will accept no liability for any inaccuracies in the dataset. There is no liability accepted by the University of Manchester in relation to any issues or liabilities that may subsequent arise from use of the data for any purpose. A list of caveats and limitations is available via the ClimateJust map portal<www.climatejust.org.uk>. Use of data must carry all appropriate acknoweldgements. Autumn, 2023 (2022 Version).

**Acknowledgements:**See indicator information for relevant data acknowledgements for the inputs to this dataset.  
The ClimateJust tool contains public sector information licensed under the Open Government Licence v2.0. Full details can be found here:[http://data.gov.uk/terms-and-conditions](http://data.gov.uk/terms-and-conditions/).  
Contains adapted data from the Office for National Statistics licensed under the Open Government Licence v.2.0. © Crown copyright and database right 2022  
Contains Ordnance Survey data © Crown copyright and database right 2022.  
Boundary data are available through the data.gov.uk service England and Wales (LSOA)<https://data.gov.uk/dataset/lower_layer_super_output_area_lsoa_boundaries/>.  
This work was funded by Friends of the Earth. Research conducted by University of Manchester.  
Autumn, 2023 (2022 Version).