## Id

743e24b0-57bf-4a1a-a22b-27b067d94c81


## Uri

[https://catalogue.ceh.ac.uk/id/743e24b0-57bf-4a1a-a22b-27b067d94c81](https://catalogue.ceh.ac.uk/id/743e24b0-57bf-4a1a-a22b-27b067d94c81)


## Type

aggregate


## Title

The impact of nutrient change and climate alteration on the deep eutrophic lake, Rostherne Mere, Cheshire, UK


## Description

This is a series of sediment, ecology, hydrology, climate and model simulations conducted as part of a PhD research project on Rostherne Mere and in its catchment. These data were collected to show the relationship between a changing climate and altering nutrient loads for the impacts on the past, present and future of ecological and limnological change. Rostherne Mere is part of the Shropshire-Cheshire meres, situated close to the town of Knutsford, near Manchester Airport. Long-term monitoring of sediment traps, thermal lake profiles and nutrient concentrations are combined with intensive catchment monitoring, sediment cores and future projected modelling scenarios to give an up to date perspective on the lake restoration and to inform future management debate. The combined datasets include sediment core organic carbon burial calculations; sediment trap settling flux; river flow and nutrient loads; lake nutrient concentrations, phytoplankton assemblages, thermal profiles and secchi depth; high-resolution seasonal sediment trap diatom assemblages; PROTECH model validation and future scenario assessments. The work was carried out as part of a Natural Environment Research Council (NERC) funded PhD [grant number NE/L002493/1], with part of the work also funded by the NERC small grant [grant number NE/H011978/1] and the UKLEON network monitoring station [NERC small grant number NE/1007261/1].


## Metadata Date

2023-03-14T13:23:15


## Resource Identifiers

### Code

[https://catalogue.ceh.ac.uk/id/743e24b0-57bf-4a1a-a22b-27b067d94c81](https://catalogue.ceh.ac.uk/id/743e24b0-57bf-4a1a-a22b-27b067d94c81)




## Lineage

Sampling and analysis was carried out as part of a PhD research project from October 2014 to March 2018. Details of sample collection, handling and analysis are provided within the datasets and supporting information. All analysis was conducted by the lead author at the Loughborough University (Department of Geography) laboratories, unless otherwise stated in the supporting information. The data was collated to Excel spreadsheets held by the lead author at Loughborough University. For ingestion into the Environmental Information data was extracted from the Excel spreadsheets and converted into a comma separated file. 


## Responsible Parties

### Organisation Name

NERC EDS Environmental Information Data Centre


### Organisation Identifier

[https://ror.org/04xw4m193](https://ror.org/04xw4m193)


### Role

custodian


### Email

info@eidc.ac.uk




## Dataset Reference Date

### Creation Date

2018-08-31



## Resource Type

aggregate


## Access Limitation



## Not G E M I N I

False


## Incoming Citation Count

0


## Resource Status

Unknown


## Custodians

### Organisation Name

NERC EDS Environmental Information Data Centre


### Organisation Identifier

[https://ror.org/04xw4m193](https://ror.org/04xw4m193)


### Role

custodian


### Email

info@eidc.ac.uk




## Updated Date

2023-03-14T13:23:15.000+00:00

