## Id

8087d803-4dde-4113-9b26-fb1cd0627681


## Uri

[https://catalogue.ceh.ac.uk/id/8087d803-4dde-4113-9b26-fb1cd0627681](https://catalogue.ceh.ac.uk/id/8087d803-4dde-4113-9b26-fb1cd0627681)


## Type

aggregate


## Title

Amazonica aquatic carbon, nutrient and hydrology data


## Description

The Natural Environment Research Council funded, Amazon Integrated Carbon Analysis (Amazonica) project, was undertaken to refine Amazon basin carbon balance by combining various different types of quantification strategies, ranging from biomass plots to eddy covariance studies and air craft measurements of the atmospheric composition. Amazonica work package 5, which generated these data, was responsible for quantifying the role of aquatic carbon export, which is often overlooked. In the more fertile Western part of the Amazonian basin, Madre de Dios region, Peru, two streams and two rivers were sampled from February 2011 to May 2012. Water chemistry (pH, conductivity and dissolved oxygen) and stage height were measured continuously in two small streams and as spot measurements in two rivers. Flow velocity was measured during campaigns in the streams to establish rating curves. In these drainage systems the concentration and composition of fluvial carbon (dissolved inorganic carbon and the stable carbon isotopic composition of DIC, dissolved organic carbon and particulate organic carbon), aquatic CO2 efflux, and nutrient concentrations were collected during three field campaigns targeting different seasons. During the third field campaign the carbon and nutrient content of rainfall fractions were studied. The stream samples were taken to understand the hydrological controls on the carbon concentrations and fluxes during different flow conditions. The rainfall fraction samples were taken to understand the nutrient and carbon delivery in rainwater as well as leaching from tree canopies, stems and from the soil surface. The data collection was carried out as part of the Natural Environment Research Council (NERC) funded Amazonica project (NE/F005482/1).


## Metadata Date

2024-02-08T17:33:56


## Resource Identifiers

### Code

[https://catalogue.ceh.ac.uk/id/8087d803-4dde-4113-9b26-fb1cd0627681](https://catalogue.ceh.ac.uk/id/8087d803-4dde-4113-9b26-fb1cd0627681)




## Lineage

For the stream data: During three field campaigns (Feb.-Apr. 2011, Sept.-Dec. 2011 and Mar.-May 2012) samples for measurement of Dissolved Inorganic Carbon (DIC), Delta 13 Carbon - Dissolved Inorganic Carbon , Dissolved Inorganic Carbon (DOC) and Particulate Organic Carbon (POC) concentrations were collected from the streams and rivers in the study area. On a selected set of samples nutrient analyses were carried out. Different flow conditions were targeted in sampling to understand the hydrological controls on the carbon concentrations and fluxes. Full details are given in the data catalogue record and supporting documentation.

For the rainfall fraction data: Throughfall and rain water were collected in 31.5 centimetre diameter plastic buckets covered with fine mesh to prevent litter entering. The stemflow collection systems were made of flexible plastic piping cut in half, attached to the tree stems with minimal use of small nails and silicon sealant to close the gaps between the pipe edge and the tree stem to direct the stemflow into the collection system into a plastic collection bucket at the bottom of the tree. A plastic pipe cut in half lengthways was placed under the stream bank to capture the overland flow and set at an angle to drain into a receiver bucket through a hole cut on the side of the bucket. The bucket was covered with a lid to prevent leaves and other litter falling in. All collectors were emptied after each rain event and when sufficient volume had been collected. Full details are given in the data catalogue record and supporting documentation.


## Topic Categories

inlandWaters

### Uri

[http://inspire.ec.europa.eu/metadata-codelist/TopicCategory/inlandWaters](http://inspire.ec.europa.eu/metadata-codelist/TopicCategory/inlandWaters)




## Keywords Instrument

Thermo-Fisher-Scientific Gas Bench/Delta V Plus

stemflow collectors

overland flow collectors

throughfall collectors

Thermalox TOC 2020

Atomic Absorption Spectrometry (Perkin Elmer Analyst 400)



## Keywords Place

Amazon

Amazonia

Peru



## Keywords Other

dissolved inorganic carbon

dissolved organic carbon

particulate organic carbon

DIC

DOC

POC

nutrients



## Temporal Extents

### Begin

2012-04-08


### End

2012-05-19


### Begin

2011-02-11


### End

2012-05-22




## Resource Type

aggregate


## Not G E M I N I

False


## Incoming Citation Count

0


## Resource Status

Unknown


## Updated Date

2024-02-08T17:33:56.000+00:00

