## Id

d73cf598-3be1-4079-84ec-0446b090d5dd


## Uri

[https://catalogue.ceh.ac.uk/id/d73cf598-3be1-4079-84ec-0446b090d5dd](https://catalogue.ceh.ac.uk/id/d73cf598-3be1-4079-84ec-0446b090d5dd)


## Type

aggregate


## Title

Time series of temperature and phenology from tropical and temperate forest canopies, 2021-2023


## Description

These datasets contain time series of canopy images at 10 minute temporal resolution from a thermal camera and a visible light camera at two forest sites. One site, with data from Nov 2022-Nov 2023, is a semi-deciduous tropical forest in Ghana, West Africa (Bobiri Forest Reserve). The other, with data from Jul 2021-Sep 2023, is within a free air CO2 enrichment (FACE) experiment in a mature temperate woodland (BIFoR-FACE). These datasets can be used to assess temporal patterns of canopy temperatures and greenness (canopy phenology). In addition, high temporal resolution (10 sec) climate data measuring solar radiation, air temperature, rainfall, relative humidity, wind speed and direction, vapour pressure and air pressure is available for the Bobiri Forest Reserve site. The data were collected as part of the netCTF project, with the aim of increasing understanding of forest canopy temperatures. The project was co-ordinated by the University of Plymouth with partners at CSIR-Forestry Research Institute of Ghana, University of Birmingham, and University of Leeds. The project was funded by the Natural Environment Research Council.


## Metadata Date

2025-07-09T09:26:25


## Resource Identifiers

### Code

[https://catalogue.ceh.ac.uk/id/d73cf598-3be1-4079-84ec-0446b090d5dd](https://catalogue.ceh.ac.uk/id/d73cf598-3be1-4079-84ec-0446b090d5dd)




## Keywords Other

canopy temperature

greenness

climate

weather

micrometerology

woodland

environmental survey

carbon dioxide

oak

ecophysiology

FACE

Ghana

West Africa

England

United Kingdom



## Dataset Reference Date

### Creation Date

2025-07-08


### Publication Date

2025-07-08



## Resource Type

aggregate


## Not G E M I N I

False


## Has Online Service Agreement

False


## Incoming Citation Count

0


## Resource Status

Unknown


## Publication Date

2025-07-08T00:00:00.000+00:00


## Updated Date

2025-07-09T09:26:25.000+00:00

